# CMSSW SPRACE 2018

The complexibility of Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) detector and the large amount of data collected by it requires a dedicated software called CMS SoftWare (CMSSW), which is a fundamental tool to perform the  physical analysis with the data. 
The CMSSW consists of more than a thousand sub-packages providing an extensive toolkit for users to carry out analysis of data. 
It also gathers services needed by the reconstruction modules that process the data. 
The CMSSW is complex tool and a study is important to understand and use this software in the specific analysis.

This course is based in the workbook ([CMSSW WorkBook](https://twiki.cern.ch/twiki/bin/view/CMSPublic/WorkBook)) and in the pre-exercises from the CMS Data Analisys School (CMSDAS) which happend in 2018, January 8-12 at Fermilab, Chicago - EUA ([CMSDAS 2018-1](https://indico.cern.ch/event/662371/)). CMSDAS is a school designed to help CMS physicists from across the collaboration to learn, or to learn more, about CMS analysis and thereby to participate in significant ways in any physics analysis including future discoveries.  It enables physicists beginning analysis to easily join an ongoing analysis in a productive way. The school is divided in three parts: 1) the pre-exercises, whitch is made before the school and prepare the students to plunge into data analysis; 2) The short exercises (several hours duration) cover all of the objects from jets to muons and many techniques from event generators to setting upper limits; They occur during the first half of the school; and 3) Long exercises (the shorts exercises depends on the choosed long exercise) are devoted to perform detailed physics measurements using CMS data in a 2.5-day intensive period by focused teams of about 6-8 students. CMSDAS is hands-on, 90% of the time students work with data, in many cases performing analyses that go beyond the state of the art at CMS. Students have a finite chance of making a physics discovery during the school. The next CMSDAS will happen in September 10-14 at Desy, Hamburg - Germany ([CMSDAS 2018-2](https://indico.desy.de/indico/event/19108/)).

The main idea of this course is help students (undergraduate and graduate) to undestand a little bit more about the CMSSW and them they can work in exercises in the Access SPRACE cluster and in the LXPLUS machine. 
